Add documentation for Shard Hotspot Identification RCA (#3741)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _monitoring-your-cluster/pa/rca/shard-hotspot.md

---
layout: default
title: Hot shard identification
parent: Root Cause Analysis
grand_parent: Performance Analyzer
nav_order: 30
---

## Shard hotspot identification

Hot shard identification Root Cause Analysis (RCA) lets you can identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than other shards and may lead to poor indexing and search performance. The hot shard identification RCA monitors the following metrics:

- CPU utilization
- Heap allocation rate

Although the metric that you should monitor depends on the cluster configuration and the workload, refer to the following list for common operations which may lead to increased resource consumption:

- Bulk requests: High heap allocation rate.
- Search requests: High CPU utilization
- Complex queries: High CPU utilization and high heap allocation rate.

> - Document updates: High CPU utilization and high heap allocation rate.

Reviewer: This is generic and not related to Shard HotSpot.  Instead, we can add about the cluster workload using `_routing` parameter and/or custom document ID, mapping to a segment on disk. Repeated access to this segment(in turn OpenSeach shard) leading to more resource consumption and thus becoming a Hot Shard. 

We can discuss more on the phrasing of this.

      ]
    }
  ]
}]
```

## Response fields

The following table lists the response fields.

Field | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
rca_name | String | The name of the RCA. In this case, "HotShardClusterRca".
timestamp | Integer | The timestamp of the RCA.
state | Object | The state of the cluster determined by the RCA. The `state` can be `healthy`, `unhealthy`, or `unknown`.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.number_of_nodes | Integer | The number of nodes in the cluster.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.number_of_unhealthy_nodes | Integer | The number of nodes found to be in an `unhealthy` state.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.resource_type | Object | The type of resource checked, either "cpu usage" or "heap".
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.resource_metric | String | The definition of the resource_type. Either "cpu usage(num of cores)" or "heap alloc rate(heap alloc rate in bytes per second)".
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.threshold | Float | The value that determines if a resource is highly utilized.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.value | Float | The current value of the resource.

> HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.time_period_seconds | Time | The amount of time that the resource_type has to be above the threshold value in order to mark the shard state as `unhealthy`.

Reviewer: `The amount of time that the resource_type has to be above the threshold value in order to mark the shard state as unhealthy` -> `The amount of time shard is monitored before declaring its state as healthy/unhealthy`

> HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.meta_data | String | The metadata associated with the resource_type.

Reviewer: This is the most important field. We can break it down. 
`"meta_data": "QRF4rBM7SNCDr1g3KU6HyA index9 0"`, the value here is made of 3 fields representing `Node_Name Index_Name Shard_Id` respectively.  The Shard `0` of Index `index9` on Node `QRF4rBM7SNCDr1g3KU6HyA` is hot.

---
layout: default
title: Hot shard identification
parent: Root Cause Analysis
grand_parent: Performance Analyzer
nav_order: 30
---

> ## Hot shard identification

Reviewer 2: Do you want to begin this topic with a heading level 1? Consider that "Response fields" further down is the same heading level.

Reviewer 3: Thank you! Changed.

> Hot shard identification Root Cause Analysis (RCA) lets you identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than other shards and may lead to poor indexing and search performance. The hot shard identification RCA monitors the following metrics:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Hot shard identification root cause analysis (RCA) lets you identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than other shards and may lead to poor indexing and search performance. The hot shard identification RCA monitors the following metrics:
```

> Hot shard identification Root Cause Analysis (RCA) lets you can identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than other shards and may lead to poor indexing and search performance. The hot shard identification RCA monitors the following metrics:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Hot shard identification Root Cause Analysis (RCA) lets you identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than other shards and may lead to poor indexing and search performance. The hot shard identification RCA monitors the following metrics:
```

- CPU utilization
- Heap allocation rate

> Shards may become hot because of the nature of your workload. When you use a `_routing` parameter or a custom document ID, a specific shard within the cluster receives frequent updates, consuming more CPU and heap resources than other shards.

Reviewer: `a specific shard` -> `specific shard(s)`

> The hot shard identification RCA compares the CPU utilization and heap allocation rate against their threshold values. If the usage for either metric is greater than the threshold, the shard is considered hot.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The hot shard identification RCA compares the CPU utilization and heap allocation rates against their threshold values. If the usage for either metric is greater than the threshold, the shard is considered to be _hot_.
```

    }
  ]
}]
```

## Response fields

The following table lists the response fields.

Field | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
rca_name | String | The name of the RCA. In this case, "HotShardClusterRca".
timestamp | Integer | The timestamp of the RCA.
state | Object | The state of the cluster determined by the RCA. The `state` can be `healthy`, `unhealthy`, or `unknown`.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.number_of_nodes | Integer | The number of nodes in the cluster.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.number_of_unhealthy_nodes | Integer | The number of nodes found to be in an `unhealthy` state.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.resource_type | Object | The type of resource causing the unhealthy state, either "cpu usage" or "heap".
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.resource_metric | String | The definition of the resource_type. Either "cpu usage(num of cores)" or "heap alloc rate(heap alloc rate in bytes per second)".
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.threshold | Float | The value that determines if a resource is contended.
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.value | Float | The current value of the resource.

> HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.time_period_seconds | Time | The amount of time a shard was monitored before its state was declared as healthy or unhealthy.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.time_period_seconds | Time | The amount of time that a shard was monitored before its state was declared to be healthy or unhealthy.
```

> HotClusterSummary.HotNodeSummary.HotResourceSummary.time_period_seconds | Time | The amount of time a shard is monitored before its state was declared as healthy or unhealthy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The amount of time a shard was monitored before its state was declared as healthy or unhealthy.
```

---
layout: default
title: Shard hotspot identification
parent: Root Cause Analysis
grand_parent: Performance Analyzer
nav_order: 30
---

## Shard hotspot identification

> With the shard hotspot identification RCA, you can identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than its counterparts. The shard hotspot identification RCA monitors the following metrics:

Reviewer 6: By counterparts do we mean other shards?

> With the shard hotspot identification RCA, you can identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than its counterparts. The shard hotspot identification RCA monitors the following metrics:

Author: I mean, I feel like a counterpart to a shard is another shard, but I'll update it to be more clear.

> With the shard hotspot identification RCA, you can identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than its counterparts. The shard hotspot identification RCA monitors the following metrics:

Author: I went ahead and added the RCA definition.

> - `CPU_Utilization`

Author: the name is pretty self explanatory, how would you suggest further spelling it out?

> - `CPU_Utilization`

Reviewer 3: just use
```suggestion
- CPU utilization
```
instead of a variable name :)

- `Heap_AllocRate`

> These metrics provide an accurate picture of operation intensities for certain shards, such as the following: 

Reviewer 3: I think we should mention here that although the metric that you should monitor depends on the cluster configuration and the workload, these are suggested metrics to monitor for the following operations.

Author: So, my understanding here is that these are the two metrics specifically monitored by this RCA, and only these two. Are you saying this isn't correct?

Reviewer 3: No, I understand that those are the two metrics, but the intro sentence here can be rewritten to be more explicit. The question is,  how does the user know which metric to monitor? That depends on the user's cluster configuration and workload. However, for let's say for workloads with heavy bulk operation usage, we recommend that they look for the high heap allocation rate. For workloads with heavy search request usage, they should look for high CPU utilization, etc.

Reviewer 3: Or, another way it can be written is to emphasize which operations may lead to which resource consumption.

Author: ah, ok, I'll work on it

> - Bulk requests - High heap allocation rate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Bulk requests: High heap allocation rate.
```

> - Search requests - High CPU utilization, more complex queries, and heap allocation rates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Search requests: High CPU utilization
- Complex queries: High CPU utilization and high heap allocation rate.
```

> - Document updates - Relatively high balance between `CPU_Utilization` and `Heap_AllocRate`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Document updates: High CPU utilization and high heap allocation rate.
```

> The shard hotspot identification RCA looks at the `CPU_Utilization` and `Heap_AllocRate` metric data and compares the values against the threshold for each resource. If the usage for any of these resources is greater than their individual threshold, the context is marked as "unhealthy" and creates a "Hot Shard Resource Summary" for the shard.

Reviewer 3: I think the `unhealthy` and `HotShardResourceSummary` are implementation details, so we can omit them here.
```suggestion
The shard hotspot identification RCA compares the CPU utilization and heap allocation rate against their threshold values. If the usage for either metric is greater than the threshold, the shard is considered a hot spot.
```

> For in-depth information regarding the operation of the shard hotspot identification RCA, see the following [Github readme](https://github.com/opensearch-project/performance-analyzer-rca/blob/main/src/main/java/org/opensearch/performanceanalyzer/rca/store/rca/hotshard/docs/README.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about the shard hotspot identification RCA implementation, see [Hot Shard RCA](https://github.com/opensearch-project/performance-analyzer-rca/blob/main/src/main/java/org/opensearch/performanceanalyzer/rca/store/rca/hotshard/docs/README.md).
```

#### Example request

> 

Reviewer 3: Add a sentence describing the request.

Author: this is not something we've done before, is this new to our process?

Reviewer 3: Let's ask @natebower's opinion.

Author: Well I added a brief one, but I'll ask @natebower for editorial.

```bash

> GET localhost:9600/_plugins/_performanceanalyzer/rca?name=HotShardClusterRca

Reviewer 6: Nit, should we remove host/port from the example? If someone were running from a remote cluster, they would need to modify the example.

Author: I have this updated

```

#### Response

> ```json

Reviewer 3: I would add a table describing the response fields, even though they are pretty self-explanatory. The only things that are not apparent are:
- What other values are possible for `state`?
- If the state is "healthy", is HotClusterSummary populated, empty, or omitted altogether?
- Is the time period fixed or configurable?

Author: I've put out a request for some further clarification, in the meantime I'll write up a table.

---
layout: default
title: Shard hotspot identification
parent: Root Cause Analysis
grand_parent: Performance Analyzer
nav_order: 30
---

## Shard hotspot identification

With the shard hotspot identification Root Cause Analysis (RCA), you can identify a hot shard within an index. A hot shard is an outlier that consumes more resources than other shards and may lead to poor indexing and search performance. The shard hotspot identification RCA monitors the following metrics:

- `CPU_Utilization`

> - `Heap_AllocRate`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Heap allocation rate
```
